All right.
Welcome back.
So this video is about sort of a weird topic called truthiness and falseness.
I wasn't sure how to spell falseness So I just just left it off but it's about both.
So we established in the last video that in a conditional check and a conditional statement there is
an expression and it always evaluates to be true or false.
So there's no gray area in between.
So this is slightly new this isn't really the focus of the video though but there is something called
is that we'll talk about actually in a future video.
It's very similar to double equal sign where we check for equality but there's a slight difference.
But in this example x is equal to once with variable x set it to 1.
When we run X is one we get true.
And X is zero or any other number.
We get false.
There's no gray area in between.
It's a yes or no.
So this here this is a truthy expression and this is a falsie expression.
So that's pretty straightforward.
But really with this video is about is that values on their own single individual values not full expressions
like this.
They can have or they do have an inherent truthiness or faultiness.
I feel like I'm you know talking about like politicians or something talking about truthiness and falseness.
But here's a couple of examples.
So things that are naturally false on their own include empty strings.
And I'm going to demonstrate office the value none which we briefly touched on and zero numbers zero.
So those are all on their own are false.
So when I say that they're false on their own it doesn't mean that just by referencing zero the entire
thing is going to be false.
Let me open a Python 3 here.
I could do something like this.
Let's say if I did just if zero very bland and by the way I'm going to do a conditional statement in
the REPL here in the shell.
You can do that and it will basically force you to go to a new line when I hit enter.
And it gives you the three dots saying I'm waiting.
So I mean indent and I'll just do ePrint.
Yea it doesn't really matter what we put here.
So this print will only run if this is truthy if this evaluates to true and all we have is zero.
So on its own I have to hit enter one more time by the way to tell Python Ok I'm done.
And nothing prints but if I try that whole thing again and I change it to the number one and this time
I do print.
Yay.
Questionmark hit enter one more time because I need to tell Python I'm done it prints Yeah.
So what does this tell us.
It tells us that this expression even though it's just the number one the number 1 on its own is truthy
it has a default inherent truthiness to it and 0 has an inherent falseness to it because we didn't get
this print.
So why does this really matter.
Well it's one it's good to know about but we can take advantage of it.
So here's a quick example from the sort of real world a real example at least where we could use take
advantage of the inherent truthiness and falseness of values.
So what I'm going to do now is make a new file and I'm just going to call it truth the truthiness dot
p y.
So in here will ask for input and we'll just ask for.
Enter your favorite animal something silly like this and at the end we'll just write something like.
Print.
Save as a variable what's called animal and we'll just say print animal Plus is my favorite too.
So I know this is very trivial at the moment but we're getting input and we're printing it back out.
Let's just make sure that part works.
So I'm going to run Python three truthiness to your favorite animal you say it's a newt and it says
Newt is my favorite too.
But there's this edge case where I can say enter your favorite animal and I just hit enter and we just
get blank is my favorite too.
So it's an empty string is the value of animal because we didn't enter anything in.
So what we could do is appear at a conditional check and I would just say if animal just like this one
two three four then we'll print animal it's my favorite too.
So this single line we're not checking if animals are equal to something we're saying if animal at all
if it exists.
And the only reason this works is because strings any string that isn't empty is truthy.
But if it's empty it's falsie.
So if animal is empty then this won't execute.
So we could add or else if we wanted to super simple and just say print.
You didn't say anything like that.
And let's see what happens.
And to your favorite animal I just hit enter.
Empty string triggers.
You don't say anything.
And if I say instead salamander too close to a newt goat go is my favorite too.
Great.
All right.
So what I'm just trying to show you is that you'll see this occasionally not just with animal but where
values are checked to see if they exist and that the way that that works depends on inherent truthiness
and falseness of values.
So to sum that up empty strings and zero are the two most common as well as empty objects we haven't
talked about objects yet but it helps to know those are also false.
So basically anything that empty or zero or the actual value none.
Capital and non-special Python's value.
We haven't addressed much yet either but we do know it exists.
All right so those are all inherently falsie.
Everything else is truly.